WORKSHEET-1
SQL
Q1 and Q2 have one or more correct answer. Choose all the correct option to answer your question.
1. Which of the following is/are DDL commands in SQL?
A) Create B) Update
C) Delete D) ALTER

Answer: A,D

2. Which of the following is/are DML commands in SQL?
A) Update B) Delete
C) Select D) Drop

Answer A,B,C

Q3 to Q10 have only one correct answer. Choose the correct option to answer your question.
3. Full form of SQL is:
A) Strut querying language B) Structured Query Language
C) Simple Query Language D) None of them

Answer: B

4. Full form of DDL is:
A) Descriptive Designed Language B) Data Definition Language
C) Data Descriptive Language D) None of the above.

Answer: B

5. DML is:
A) Data Manipulation Language B) Data Management Language
C) Data Modeling Language D) None of these

Answer A

6. Which of the following statements can be used to create a table with column B int type and C float type?
A) Table A (B int, C float) B) Create A (b int, C float)
C) Create Table A (B int,C float) D) All of them

Answer C

7. Which of the following statements can be used to add a column D (float type) to the table A created above?
A) Table A ( D float) B) Alter Table A ADD COLUMN D float
C) Table A( B int, C float, D float) D) None of them

Answer B

8. Which of the following statements can be used to drop the column added in the above question?
A) Table A Drop D B) Alter Table A Drop Column D
C) Delete D from A D) None of them

Answer: B

9. Which of the following statements can be used to change the data type (from float to int ) of the column D of table A created in above questions?
A) Table A (D float int) B) Alter Table A Alter Column D int
C) Alter Table A D float int D) Alter table A Column D float to int

Answer B

10. Suppose we want to make Column B of Table A as primary key of the table. By which of the following statements we can do it?
A) Alter Table A Add Constraint Primary Key B B) Alter table (B primary key)
C) Alter Table A Add Primary key B D) None of them

Answer C

Q11 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.
11. What is data-warehouse?

Answer: A data warehouse is a type of data management system that is designed to enable and support business intelligence (BI) activities, especially analytics. 
The data within a data warehouse is usually derived from a wide range of sources such as application log files and transaction applications.
A data warehouse centralizes and consolidates large amounts of data from multiple sources. Its analytical capabilities allow organizations to derive valuable business insights from their data to improve decision-making.  

12. What is the difference between OLTP VS OLAP?

Answer: 
OLAP:
Online Analytical Processing, a category of software tools which provide analysis of data for business decisions. OLAP systems allow users to analyze database information from multiple database systems at one time.

OLTP:
Online transaction processing shortly known as OLTP supports transaction-oriented applications in a 3-tier architecture. OLTP administers day to day transaction of an organization.

13. What are the various characteristics of data-warehouse?

Answer: 
Subject-oriented –
A data warehouse is always a subject oriented as it delivers information about a theme instead of organization’s current operations. These themes can be sales, distributions, marketing etc.

Integrated –
A data warehouse is built by integrating data from various sources of data such that a mainframe and a relational database. In addition, it must have reliable naming conventions, format and codes. Integration of data warehouse benefits in effective analysis of data.

Time-Variant –
In this data is maintained via different intervals of time such as weekly, monthly, or annually etc. It founds various time limit which are structured between the large datasets and are held in online transaction process (OLTP). 

Non-Volatile –
As the name defines the data resided in data warehouse is permanent. It also means that data is not erased or deleted when new data is inserted. It includes the mammoth quantity of data that is inserted into modification between the selected quantity on logical business.

14. What is Star-Schema??

Answer:

15. What do you mean by SETL?

Answer:

Star schema is the fundamental schema among the data mart schema and it is simplest. 
This schema is widely used to develop or build a data warehouse and dimensional data marts. 
It includes one or more fact tables indexing any number of dimensional tables. 
The star schema is a necessary case of the snowflake schema. It is also efficient for handling basic queries.

15. What do you mean by SETL?
Answer: SET Language. A very high level language based on sets, designed by Jack Schwartz at the Courant Institute in the early 1970s. It was possibly the first use of list comprehension notation.

Data types include sets (unordered collections), tuples (ordered collections) and maps (collections of ordered pairs). Expressions may include quantifiers ('for each' and 'exists'). The first Ada translator was written in SETL.